MOAI FEP Vat by JLS

This vat is designed to use minimal parts and only simple hand-tools to make and assemble.

Tools you will need:
	FDM / FFF 3D Printer with 0.4mm or 0.6mm nozzle
	Drill (hand or powered)
	Drill bits: 3mm, 4mm or 1/8 inch, 5/32 inch
	COARSE sandpaper
	Masking tape (BLUE removeable is preferred)
	Metal putty knife
	Simple pliers
	Utility or Razor knife
	Hex wrenches to match machine screws
	Small, pointy Phillips or J1 screwdriver (4mm or smaller)
	Microfiber cloth at least as large as the vat.

Parts you will need:
	( 1) FEP sheet large enough to extend beyond the edges of the new vat
	(26) M4 x 12mm BUTTON HEAD stainless steel machine screws and M4 Washers
	(1m) 12mm x 4mm (1/2 x 5/32) felt strip and contact adhesive, or use a self-adhesive strip
		(alternative sizes acceptable) (commonly called weather stripping)

Preparing the acrylic build surface:
------------------------------------
	
You may use the acrylic plate from the bottom of your damaged Silicon vat for your new FEP vat.
	* You must be careful not to scratch the acrylic in the build area of the plate!
	* The edges not part of the build area can have scratches, but not raised areas when complete.
	* The bottom of the plate will be used as the new top of the plate as it's edges will be less damaged.
Acrylic plate salvage process:
	Carefully peel the PDMS / Silicone material out of the vat.
	Apply masking tape to the RESIN area inside the vat and again on the bottom side inside the ring.
	Use the pliers to break away the vertical sections of the vat.
	Use the putty knife to chip away any remaining acrylic on the edges.
	Use the putty knife to scrape the edges until flat.
	Use the coarse sandpaper to smooth the edges.
	Use the putty knife to remove the bottom ring and scrape any glue away.
	Use the sandpaper to smooth the bottom edges of the plate if needed.

You may use a new piece of 3mm clear acrylic plate. (Lexan is untested)
	* Many hardware stores can cut the acrylic to size. Take the drill guide with you!
	* You should round the corners, but they do not need to be perfectly matched to the guide.
	* Use sandpaper to buff the edges of the acrylic to prevent injury from sharp edges.

Print the drill guide:
	Thick layers, Draft quality. You will only need the part once.

Drill the holes in the acrylic plate:
	* USE LIGHT PRESSURE AND SLOW SPEED when drilling acrylic!
	Remove any old masking tape, and plastic if sheet is new.
	Cover BOTH sides of the acrylic with masking tape.
	Tape the drill guide to one side of the plate.
	Use the smaller drill to drill straight through the acrylic for all holes in the guide.
	Remove the drill guide.
	Using the larger drill bit, DRILL IN REVERSE for a few turns on BOTH SIDES of each hole.
	Using the larger drill bit, regular direction to finish drilling the holes through.
	Make sure screws slide through easily. Drill again if needed.
	Remove all chips and burrs from the holes. 
	Leave masking tape on until assembly.

Assembling the FEP VAT:
----------------------

Print the VAT parts:
	The VAT and the STRETCH RING are designed to be printed together.
	The ring functions as a print-in-place support for the recessed area under the vat.
	A SOLID print is recommended, however you may opt for 3 walls and moderate in-fill if you have warping issues with solid prints.
	Use PLA, PLA+, or Tough PLA; color does not matter.
	Do not use ABS as the resin will melt it over time!

Prepare the FEP sheet:
	* Do not remove sheet protectors or masking tape yet!
	Lay the FEP sheet on top of the acrylic plate
	* Do not puncture the four vacuum relief holes at the corners, only the four OUTER corner holes.
	Use the small screwdriver to puncture holes along the outer edge of the plate.

Assemble the VAT:
	Place a washer on each of the machine screws.
	Remove the masking tape from the acrylic plate.
	Orient the smoother side of the plate facing up. 
	Place a screw in each of the corners of the plate from the bottom, pointing upwards.
	Set the plate with four screws onto a microfiber cloth. 
	Place the STRETCH RING onto the plate (wide side down).
	Peel ONE SIDE of the FEP sheet protector off, and place that side down onto the four bolts.
	Remove the other sheet protector from the top of the FEP sheet.
	Carefully add all of the other bolts up from the bottom, through the plate, ring, and FEP sheet.
	Place the VAT part upside down.
	Take the plate with FEP sheet and flip it over.
	Place the plate and sheet assembly onto the VAT part.
	Start each screw into the VAT holes a few turns, making sure they are straight!
	PUSH the entire plate and FEP sheet down against the VAT, sliding down the screws.
	Snug the screws up to the plate, but do not tighten yet.
	Go around the plate in one direction in this pattern to tighten the screws:
	Screw, skip, skip, screw, skip, skip, screw, skip two, screw ...
	Continue around three times until screws are firm.
	Repeat again, this time bringing the screws to evenly tight.
	* Careful not to over-tighten screws! Gently proceed and repeat until everything is even!
	
Prepare the Printer for the new FEP Vat:
----------------------------------------

Preparing the Tilt-Plate in the machine:
	You will be applying four strips of felt to the large flat, rectangular surface the vat will sit on.
	Apply the side strips first, then the front and rear, covering the entire flat metal surface.

Change machine settings:
	EXTREMELY IMPORTANT: You must change the "Z-Reset Position" to "1850" and double-click to save.
	This setting is accessed via "SETUP" then "advanced_setting" then "Z-Reset Position"

Level the vat:
	* This process is different than that of the standard instructions.
	* The FELT allows a slight spring relief for the pressure of the initial layers.
	Switch the machine OFF.
	Install the new vat.
	Switch the printer ON. (warning, build plate may move!)
	Change the Z-Reset by increasing by 5 to 1855, double click to save.
	Build plate should move down into the VAT. If not repeat the setting and save again.
	Check to see if there is pressure against the FEP in the vat:
	* When the build plate is pressing on the FEP firmly enough you will feel a slight gap
	  between the top of the printed VAT and the part of sheet metal that holds it down. 
	* This gap should be just enough to feel with your finger-nail. 
	* The exact amount is not important, only that there is a slight gap caused by the pressure
	If there is no pressure and gap on any corner, return to settings and add 5 more and save.
	Repeat until you feel a pressure gap on at least two corners!
	
	Standard Build Plate:
	Remove one side of your printer enclosure.
	From under the Tilt Plate you can now adjust the level of the vat
	* You want all four corners to have similar pressure, but they do not need to be exact.
	
	Adjustable Build Plate:
	Release the tilt screws, press the plate firmly, then re-tighten the screws.
	In settings, add 5 more and save. Check the gap on four corners for proper pressure.
	
	The Pressure gap should be approximately a fingernail or less on all four corners.
	You may need to add a few points to the Z-reset as the felt ages.
	* The felt may need to be replaced eventually as it flattens over time.
	* You will not need to re-level the plate until that time.

Printer settings for the new MOAI FDM FEP VAT:
---------------------------------------------

Calibrating the surface height:
	Your new FEP sheet is now at a slightly different height than the PDMS goop. You need to re-calibrate ONCE.
	IMPORTANT: REMOVE YOUR BUILD PLATE FOR THIS TEST! FEP Vat should be installed, clean, and empty!
	Print out your handy "Calibration_Circle.PDF" IMPORTANT: Make sure scaling is set to 100% in the print menu!
	Add "P_yuan-test.gcode" to your gcode folder on your SD card.
	Run the test file as a print, and see if it matches the circle.
	If the circle is too small, increase the "X Size" and "Y Size" numbers and re-try.
	Once it's on the circle, look at the ovality:
	- If it touches on left-right but not front-back, adjust "X Size"
	- If it touches on front-back but not left-right, adjust "Y Size"
	When you have a perfect circle, you are done with calibration.

TILT (PM) and LIFT (Z) settings:
	* Start with "Initial" speeds low at first.
	* "Fast" resins will allow you to use faster "Initial" separation speeds.
	* Important Note: The negative Z_Follows value is saved, but will display "0" when returning to the menu.
	  You can see this when you attempt to change the value, it will jump to the negative number you had set.

	You may keep and use the tilt function using the default firmware settings:
	* Tested: Works with standard FEP
	- PM_Reset = 40 (tilt distance)
	- PM_Initial = 15 (tilt speed)
	- Z_Follows = 10 (FOLLOWS tilt to reduce separation forces)
	- Z_Initial = 2 (move slowly at first)

	To disable TILT and use LIFT to peel only:
	* Tested: currently unsuccessful
	- PM_Reset = 0 (disable tilt)
	- PM_Initial = 0 (disable tilt)
	- Z_Follows = -250 (NEGATIVE value results in LIFT, each -100 is 1mm of lift)
	- Z_Initial = 2 (SLOW value to prevent separation from the build plate)

	You may also experiment with partial tilt and partial lift.
	*** UNTESTED ***
	- PM_Reset = 20 (tilt distance)
	- PM_Initial = 15 (tilt speed)
	- Z_Follows = -100 (1mm Lift)
	- Z_Initial = 2 (move slowly at first)

SPEED MULTIPLIER: (Printing with different speed resins is possible from a single g-code!)
	"XY Speed SET" in "advanced_setting" multiplies the speed called in G-Code.(example: 15x 120mm/s moves the spot at 1800mm/s!)
	* The newest firmwares unlocking the speed multiplier up to 40x or 50x for high-speed resins.
	* You can use ONE print file ("PartExample_60micron") from Cura then adjust the multiplier to suit the resin.
	* Standard opaque resins might work around 5x, and some high-speed resins may work up to 40x!
	* Each of your resins will have a preferred speed range, say 12x to 15x, depending on their temperature.

LASER POWER: (Fine-tune laser DOT, EXPERIMENTAL)
	The laser power performs very well for MSLA resins around 60% and results in the spot-size arount 67 microns.
	In CURA this setting coresponds to the LINE WIDTH for your profile. The new profiles are set to 0.0067 width.
	Playing with this setting can let you make smaller prints more detailed, or larger prints faster.
	A lower laser power cures resin slower, but has a smaller spot size. You can lower line width and layer height.
	A higher laser power cures resin faster, but has a larger spot size. You can raise line width and layer height.

